non-uk citizen visas page updates (#4477)
DFE-Digital/get-into-teaching-app: app/views/content/non-uk-teachers/visas-for-non-uk-trainees.md

---
title: "Visas for non-UK trainee teachers"
subcategory: If you want to train to teach
description: |-
  Learn more about types of visas non-UK citizens will need to study or work in England, and how to apply.
related_content:
    Train to teach in England as an international student: "/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student"
    Teacher pay in England: "/life-as-a-teacher/pay-and-benefits/teacher-pay"
    What it's like to be a teacher: "/life-as-a-teacher/teaching-as-a-career/what-its-like-to-be-a-teacher"
promo_content:
navigation: 20.30

> navigation_title: Visas for non-UK trainee teachers

Reviewer: Again, worth making this change (separately) for the visas for teachers page?

---
title: "Visas for non-UK trainee teachers"
subcategory: If you want to train to teach
description: |-
  Learn more about types of visas non-UK citizens will need to study or work in England, and how to apply.
related_content:
    Train to teach in England as an international student: "/non-uk-teachers/train-to-teach-in-england-as-an-international-student"
    Teacher pay in England : "/life-as-a-teacher/pay-and-benefits/teacher-pay"

>     What it's like to be a taScher : "/life-as-a-teacher/teaching-as-a-career/what-its-like-to-be-a-teacher"

Author: ```suggestion
    What it's like to be a teacher: "/life-as-a-teacher/teaching-as-a-career/what-its-like-to-be-a-teacher"
```

promo_content:
navigation: 20.30
navigation_title: Visas for non-UK trainee teachers
navigation_description: Learn more about applying for a Student or Skilled Worker visa to train to teach in England.
image: "static/images/content/hero-images/0034.jpg"
backlink: "../../"
expander:

>   ukraine-visas:S

Author: ```suggestion
  ukraine-visas:
```

  - Settlement Scheme
  
---
If you are applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, you will need a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England. 

> If you do not already have a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England, you will need to apply for a Student or Skilled Worker visa. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you do not already have a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England, you will need to apply for a Student visa or Skilled Worker visa. 
```
Is it worth tweaking this slightly to be clear these are 2 visas rather than a combined one?

* [Graduate visa](https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa)  
* [High Potential Individual visa](https://www.gov.uk/high-potential-individual-visa)  
* [Homes for Ukraine Sponsorship Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-visa-under-the-ukraine-sponsorship-scheme)  
* [India Young Professionals Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/india-young-professionals-scheme-visa)  
* [UK Ancestry visa](https://www.gov.uk/ancestry-visa)  
* [Ukraine Extension Scheme](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-to-stay-in-the-uk-under-the-ukraine-extension-scheme)  
* [Ukraine Family Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/apply-for-a-ukraine-family-scheme-visa)  
* [Youth Mobility Scheme visa](https://www.gov.uk/youth-mobility)

$ukraine-visas$

## Student visa for fee-paying training courses

Most teacher training courses in England are fee-paying. This means you will need to pay tuition fees to train.

You will need a Student visa if you’re on a fee-paying course. Your Student visa must be sponsored by your teacher training provider. 

[Find out more about studying in the UK on a Student visa](https://www.gov.uk/student-visa).

### Bursaries and scholarships if you are on a Student visa 

> If you are training to teach physics or languages, you may be [eligible for a bursary or scholarship](/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).  

Reviewer: Would this link be better going to the bursaries and scholarships page?

If you successfully applied for a bursary or scholarship, you can use this in your Student visa application as proof that you have enough money to support yourself. 

> Bursaries and scholarship payments are usually made by late October but you should confirm payment dates with your chosen provider.

Reviewer: I think this is misleading - they are not lump sum payments - they are both paid over a minimum of 10 months? (Unless it is different for non-UK citizens - but I don't think so?)

> Bursaries and scholarship payments are usually made by late October but you should confirm payment dates with your chosen provider.

Author: ```suggestion
The first instalment of a bursary or scholarship is usually made by late October but you should confirm payment dates with your chosen provider.
```

  
---

> If you’re applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, you will need a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England. 

Author: ```suggestion
If you are applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, you will need a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England. 
```

> If you’re applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, you will need a [visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England](#check-your-status). 

Author: ```suggestion
If you’re applying for teacher training as a non-UK citizen, you will need a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England. 
```

> If you do not have a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England, you’ll need to apply for a Student or Skilled Worker visa. 

Author: ```suggestion
If you do not have a visa or immigration status allowing you to study or work in England, you will need to apply for a Student or Skilled Worker visa. 
```

$ukraine-visas$

## Student visa for fee-paying training courses

Most teacher training courses in England are fee-paying. This means you will need to pay tuition fees to train.

You will need a Student visa if you’re on a fee-paying course. Your Student visa must be sponsored by your teacher training provider. 

[Find out more about studying in the UK on a Student visa](https://www.gov.uk/student-visa).

$refugees-asylum-seekers$

> ### Bursaries and scholarships if you’re on a Student visa 

Author: ```suggestion
### Bursaries and scholarships if you are on a Student visa 
```

> If you’re training to teach physics or languages, you may be [eligible for a bursary or scholarship](/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).  

Author: ```suggestion
If you are training to teach physics or languages, you may be [eligible for a bursary or scholarship](/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).  
```

> If you’re training to teach physics or languages, you may be [eligible for a bursary or scholarship](https://getintoteaching.education.gov.uk/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).  

Author: ```suggestion
If you’re training to teach physics or languages, you may be [eligible for a bursary or scholarship](/non-uk-teachers/fees-and-funding-for-non-uk-trainees).  
```

> If you successfully apply for a bursary or scholarship, you can use this in your Student visa application as proof that you have enough money to support yourself. 

Author: ```suggestion
If you successfully applied for a bursary or scholarship, you can use this in your Student visa application as proof that you have enough money to support yourself. 
```

You may be able to train part-time, but your part-time salary must be at least $nonuk_skilledworkervisatraineeminparttime$.

## What you need to do to apply for your visa 

> 

Author: ```suggestion
You can apply for your visa once you have a confirmed offer of a training place. 
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

[Search for postgraduate teacher training courses](https://find-teacher-training-courses.service.gov.uk/) that offer visa sponsorship. 

Email your chosen provider to check if they can sponsor you, then [apply for your teacher training course](/how-to-apply-for-teacher-training). 

> You can apply for your visa once you have a confirmed offer of a training place. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

* rest of England: $nonuk_skilledworkervisatraineeminfulltime_restofengland$ 

Check the region you will be working in with your teacher training provider. 

You may be able to train part-time, but your part-time salary must be at least $nonuk_skilledworkervisatraineeminparttime$.

## What you need to do to apply for your visa 
You can apply for your visa once you have a confirmed offer of a training place. 
[Search for postgraduate teacher training courses](https://find-teacher-training-courses.service.gov.uk/) that offer visa sponsorship. 

> Email your chosen provider to check if they can sponsor you, then [apply for your teacher training course](/how-to-apply-for-teacher-training). 

Reviewer: Do they need to wait for confirmation that the provider can sponsor them before they apply?

(NB I know this is prod already - can follow this up separately if easier)

Reviewer: Resolving this - will be followed up separately

### Dependants

You will not need to be sponsored for a Student or Skilled Worker visa if you have permission to live in the UK as a dependant of someone on a visa, usually a partner. You can work or study without a sponsor for the duration of your partner’s visa. 

You may be able to bring your partner and children with you if you are on a Skilled Worker visa. 

### Visa fees

You will need to pay visa fees. You can work out the cost of your UK visa application by [using the visa fees tool](https://www.gov.uk/visa-fees).  

When you apply for a visa, you will usually need to show you have enough money to support yourself in England by providing proof of savings or income.  

### Immigration Health Surcharge

You may need to [pay for UK healthcare](https://www.gov.uk/healthcare-immigration-application) as part of your immigration application. This is called the Immigration Health Surcharge (IHS).

However, [some students can claim a refund of the IHS](https://www.gov.uk/guidance/immigration-health-surcharge-for-eu-students-in-the-uk) depending on their circumstances.

## Get help

[Contact UK Visas and Immigration for help](https://www.gov.uk/contact-ukvi-inside-outside-uk).

> You may be eligible for personalised support from a [teacher training adviser](/teacher-training-advisers). They can help with your teacher training application.

Reviewer: I wonder if we should take this link out - we want people to ring/chat to the contact centre. If we send them to the TTA page, might they just fill in the form on there?

> You may be eligible for personalised support from a [teacher training adviser](/teacher-training-advisers). They can help with your teacher training application.

Author: ```suggestion
You may be eligible for personalised support from a teacher training adviser. They can help with your teacher training application.
```

You will not need to be sponsored for a Student or Skilled Worker visa if you have permission to live in the UK as a dependant (usually partner) of someone on a visa. You can work or study without a sponsor for the duration of your partner’s visa. 

You may be able to bring your partner and children with you if you’re on a Skilled Worker visa. 

### Visa fees

> You will need to pay [visa fees](https://www.gov.uk/visa-fees). Use this tool to work out the cost of your UK visa application.  

Author: ```suggestion
You will need to pay visa fees. You can work out the cost of your UK visa application by [using the visa fees tool](https://www.gov.uk/visa-fees).  
```
